# SmartScan Sample Unity Development Project
## Contibutors
- Clarence O'Toole 

## Audit Log

| Date | Modified By | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 08.10.24 | Clarence O'Toole | Mirroring existing personal github development page |
| 09.10.24 | Clarence O'Toole | Adding CSV Reading Functionality Done Manually |
| 15.10.24 | Clarence O'Toole | Updated CSV Reading To Be More Automated |
| 15.10.24 | Clarence O'Toole | Assist Automation with Prefabs of Game Objects |
| 16.10.24 | Clarence O'Toole | Add Object Reading and Placing Automation |
| 16.10.24 | Clarence O'Toole | Manually Showcase TV Locations (Not using Prefabs) |
| 22.10.24 | Clarence O'Toole | Seperating scenes for each version |

[Document of Unity Research](https://rmiteduau.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/SmartScan24S2/Shared%20Documents/General/Documentation%20%26%20Research/Unity.docx?d=wfc194c4eeff94c4d91812f836e9d54e6&csf=1&web=1&e=q7hrbP)

## Overview
### Folders
- Animations 
    - Storage for all animations for currently just the sample YBot model. 
- Environments 
    - A folder made for preparation in the future where the environments generated by the gaussian splatting would be stored. 
- Locations 
    - Storage of all the locations in CSV format of all the Objects and People extraction from Open3D. 
- Mixamo -> Existing Models 
    - Storage of the sample test personal development for understanding animation and object movement. 
- Models 
    - Storage of all models downloaded online, including Characters and Objects. 
- Scripts 
    - All scripts that are ran on each object in a scene. 
    - IsKinematic = Benefit of collision detection but handle how it is interacted using our own code 
- XR 
    - Some random stuff for personal development of skills. 


### How To Use & Sample Environments
#### v1.0 - Starting Animation (Scene = "StartingAnimation")
Focuses on just forward, in particular switching between running and walking. Used to test and discover how Unity can use existing models downloaded online and use existing animations to start to animate.
Main focal is the yBot, controlling animation using the toggles in the "Animation" component with "YBotController" to control when they should walk, run.
- isWalking (bool) -> press "w" to start a walking animation
- isRunning (bool) -> press "w" and "left shift" to start a running animation

#### v1.1 - Blending Animation (Scene = "BlendingAnimation")
Changing animation to smoothly transition between walking and running using the "YBotControllerMesh" animation preset.
Adding a blend tree to consider what at a particular velocity value to start transiting from Walk -> run by increasing / decreasing "velocity" in the Animation window

#### v1.2 - Directional Animation & Movement (Scene = "DirAnimation")
Changing animation to consider directions left and right (strafe) using the "YBotControllerStrafe" animation preset with "twoDimensionalAnimationStateController.cs" to allow keyboard inputs.
- "w", "a", "d" for forward, left and right movement respectively
- "left shift" to toggle run

#### *LATEST* v1.3 - Refractored Movement and CSV Reading (Scene = "SampleScene")
Add additional csv reader files to extract information of people and object locations collated by Open3D, store into a dictionary of dictionaries of (ObjectName - {frame - (location information)}).

Location information follows:
| File Name | Stores | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ReadCSV | xPos, rotation | For People |
| ReadCSVStatic | xPos, rotation | For Objects BUT currently just frame 0 (first frame) & gives an unique ID to each object to distinguish from one-another ("objectName" + int value of given amount of said object there is, eg. chair1, chair2) |
| ReadCSVMoreInfo | xPos, zPos, rotation | Prepared early for when zPos estimating is implemented for Open3D |

Used ChatGPT to combine the Animation and Movement scripts to work with fixed target location and decrease complexity of using multiple files to handle the events.
To add more objects, currently this must be done manually. In the "Prefabs" folder, there are existing set game objects for currently: Person (yBot), TV, and Chair. Given the CSV file, you just need to change in "MaybeNewMovement.cs" component the "Object name" to a given object name in the csv. See Sample Scene and click on any of the existing game objects (TV, chair or personSetCSV).

# References:
Chair Model - https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/props/furniture/colorable-office-chair-104874
TV Model - https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/props/electronics/tv-set-26193
YBot Model - https://www.mixamo.com/
YBot Animation - https://www.mixamo.com/ (Specifically - Idle, Left Strafe, Right Strafe)